These files have been provided by previous graduate students.
You agree to use these yourself and not share them with others unless permission from the author is given.
Files are prepended with the authors last name.


Below is also a set of notes from the GLASS session itself.


GLASS Academic Jobs


Postdoctoral Positions
  1. AAS Job Registry is the best place to find an aggregate list of jobs
  2. DO apply to at least one named fellowship - while this is early, and a lot of work,
    it provides an excellent base for subsequent applications.
  3. Job offers are often as e.g., 1+1+1 years - this gives universities the ability to
    back out if you are a total slacker.
  4. Generally not negotiable re: salary


Teaching Jobs
  1. No aggregate job list - go to specific university/department websites
  2. Be sure to get as much teaching knowledge and experience as you can
    a. Teach at community college once you have a master's (Blinn)
    b. AAS Teaching Workshop (Ed Prather, UArizona,  Center for Astronomy Education)
       https://astronomy101.jpl.nasa.gov/
    c. TAMU CIRTL - courses on how to teach
       http://cirtl.tamu.edu/
    d. How do you apply your knowledge to the classroom, what have the results been?
    e. Document all teaching experience
  3. Many jobs are non-tenure track, single-year, renewable contracts, negotiable
  4. Often, knowing someone at a department is the way in
  5. Interview is usually a discussion of teaching theory, experience, results;
    research is not often mentioned (for teaching-only jobs)
  6. Talk to teachers in the department (Kevin, Tatiana, Dhar, etc.)


Interviews
  1. Every interview is different, no consistent format or questions
  2. Know the job
    a. review the job posting beforehand
    b. familiarize yourself with the department and university
    c. know the research of the interviewer/dept
  3. Be honest and professional
    a. don't over-promise your abilities/ past work - 
         you'll just create more work for yourself later     
    b. dress appropriately (overdressed is better than underdressed)
    c. send thank-you to interviewers afterwards
    d. show interest even if you won't take the job - 
         the interviewer may review future work or interview you for
         another position in the future.
  4. Have a list of questions for interviewers (they may answer most of
      them during talk, so have quite a few)
    a. E.g., What is the atmosphere of the department / schedule of talks /
        how often do postdocs travel
    b. Do not ask about money directly
  5. Be conscious of time of interview/ attitude of interviewer
      (read if they are done with the interview or still interested -
      they may have many more interviews to do; if they clearly aren't
      interested, asking another question won't help)


General Advice
  1. Start thinking about what to write for you applications at least a year before
    you graduate, have a good draft by the end of September.
  2. Determine letter writers based on the job
  3. Read the job description, only apply to those you want.  If it's later in the year
    and you haven't gotten anything, then start to apply to jobs that aren't quite as
    good of a match for you.
  4. If the wording of a section is unclear, don't be afraid to email the contact for clarification.
  5. Maintain a spreadsheet to keep track of jobs to apply to, what needs to be done, deadlines,
    login info, website, etc.
  6. DO include a cover letter.
  7. DO include references on CV - can be helpful if a writers haven't submitted on time.
  8. Submit applications a day before when you think they're due (time/date can be ambiguous,
    time zone effects).
  9. In research, we say 'We did x' a lot. For applications and interviews, focus on taking
    ownership of your ideas, research, teaching, etc. (use I!!!!)
  10. As soon as you accept a job (and it has been confirmed by HR), withdraw other
    applications.
  11. The Rumor Mill <http://www.astrobetter.com/wiki/Rumor+Mill> is a great resource
    for determining if you are in the running for a job, but it's just that -
    rumors! Not 100% accurate.
